Paisley Ivanovitch
7/3/25
MART120
Learning Styles
        While the four main learning styles are visual, auditory, tactile, and reading / writing. There are also other models that use elements of these to help people better learn. Such as social interaction which can combine all of these. I do believe that all these learning styles are directly tied to how we learn and I think we can gain more benefits from combining them and using them in creative ways. 
        Everyone is different in how they learn best. This is why it is so important for many teachers to include different learning styles into their curriculums to better ensure everyone is understanding. I believe it is important not only for students (and everyone else too) to try out all these different styles, but to also take time to figure out what works best for them and try to expand on that. For example if someone is learning a language and their best learning style is visual, they could use flash cards, or watch films with subtitles in the desired language. They could even expand this learning style more and try out sign language in that desired language because putting a visual hand sign to a word might help retain the information better. 
        Being creative with these learning styles is how I feel you can get the most benefits out of them. For me personally I am more of a tactile learner, meaning I can better learn and retain the information through doing something. So when I was being taught how to do deposits at work instead of showing me what to do, my boss told me each step and watched me fill out the deposits myself. That is just a simple example but I like to be more creative with this learning style. When I study Japanese I do many different things including drawing the words I am supposed to memorize, I do jumping jacks whenever I miss a word, and I even play games in Japanese. 
        So while I believe specific learning styles can benefit different people, I also believe it is important for people to try them all, see what works best and try to expand on it to get the full benefits.