Paisley Ivanovitch
7/3/25
MART120
The Last Lecture
        The last lecture really touched me a lot more than I originally expected. I found it really inspiring that Randy Pausch decided to spend what little time he had on earth to give this lecture. I also found it really interesting that he tried to accomplish so many childhood dreams of his. As a child I had many dreams but I never actually spent a lot of time trying to achieve them. I had a very fixed mindset back then and always thought I would never be able to learn and be as smart as the other kids. Which resulted in me giving up on anything I was attempting to achieve as soon as I was given criticism, because to me that meant I was never going to be good at it no matter what.
Something that really stood out to me was when Mr. Pausch was explaining how his football coach was being really hard on him which made him feel pretty bad. However the assistant coach explained to him that the coach being hard on him was actually good, because when you’re screwing up and no one says anything that means they have given up on you. This really stuck with me because I have experienced it first hand. I have played French Horn for over 10 years, starting in elementary going on to highschool. I was a pretty good player however I never practiced and this was partially due to my anxiety. I never wanted people to hear me practice because I thought if they heard that I wasn’t instantly good at something then they would think less of me. I did in fact really enjoy playing concerts and I wanted to be a part of bands that played music for video games and movies. During highschool I got a French Horn tutor, and I got on his nerves constantly for clearly never practicing and finally one day he told me, “Paisley, I was talking with my wife last night and I honestly think I have given up all hope in you.” I never had a lesson with him again and I stopped playing French Horn once I got into college.  At the time I didn’t realize his criticism was there to help me, not put me down. It was only until college that I started to learn how to take criticism and learn. This was very helpful with school work and once I started doing it, I noticed myself getting much better. 
Another thing that really stuck with me was the quote “Experience is something you get when you didn’t get what you want.” I think this is such a great quote that everyone should keep in mind because it can be applied to so many things. When you try to achieve a goal and don’t accomplish it, those experiences you went through to try and achieve it may be beneficial to you overall. When you break up with a partner it is sad you don’t get to be with them but the experiences you got from the relationship can help you make future ones better. There are many other examples but I think it’s really important to keep in mind when you’re feeling upset about not getting what you want, the experience it leaves behind will be beneficial. I think a good example of this for me was applying to the World Expo in Osaka. I took a semester off to prepare for the program however I was cut from it a week before I was supposed to fly out. They didn’t give me an explanation and it not only devastated me but caused a lot of problems in my life. I spent a long time being upset about it, I still am in fact, however I have come to realize I now have experience going through a vigorous process and I get to have the satisfaction of knowing I was one of the few students chosen for it, even if they did drop me at the end. 
        I could go on about the many other things I have enjoyed about this lecture but these are the two main ideas that really impacted me.